---
layout: page
permalink: series/kotlin/0/
title: Intro
goal: Highlight the technologies and frameworks we'll be using for developing a mobile game for Android
---

DEMO:
{% highlight kotlin %}
package demo

import com.google.common.base.Joiner
import java.util.ArrayList

fun getGreeting(): String {
    val words = ArrayList<String>()
    words.add("Hello,")
    words.add("world!")

    return Joiner.on(" ").join(words)
}

fun main(args: Array<String>) {
    println(getGreeting())
}
{% endhighlight %}

## Kotlin

Kotlin is a *jvm language* that is *extremely concise* and has *sane defaults*. Let's unpack this.

### jvm language
Kotlin can run anywhere that Java can run. You can run Kotlin on stock Android devices right now and get lambdas without waiting for JDK 8.

Also, Kotlin is carefully designed to interop with Java - Kotlin code can call Java code and vice versa.

{% highlight kotlin %}
// TODO: Kotlin calling Java stdlib
{% endhighlight %}

### extremely concise
Whereas Java is infamous for being so verbose, Kotlin is designed from the ground up to be trim and terse. Kotlin learns from many great languages and enjoys a syntax that is tight yet expressive.

I will provide many examples of this over the course of this series, but here are two quick introductory code samples:

{% highlight kotlin %}
var vs val
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight kotlin %}
() -> "Hi"
{% endhighlight %}


### sane defaults
Work with enough codebases and do enough code reviews, and you'll soon find yourself unravelling hacks built on patches slapped over bandaids. I haven't met a coder who doesn't complain about this inevitable code decay, and yet, some languages make it so easy to write fragile code.

Kotlin, on the other hand, chooses safe and sensible defaults.

* NotNull by default
* Not overridable by default

## Technologies

* Languages
  * Java
  * Kotlin

* Libraries
  * Libgdx
  * Guava
  * Gson

* Build system
  * Gradle

* Tools
  * IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition
